[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: I'm gonna run through
the arrows at least one more time,
cuz I know it can be kind of confusing,
all right?
Yes?
>> Student: At this point,
it said meaning,
it's printed out meaning of life 42?
Or it said-
>> Kyle Simpson: After line four runs,
we return the value out, and
it would say meaning of life, colon, 42.
>> Student: 42, but run is not done yet.
>> Kyle Simpson: The generator
would still be in a paused state.
>> Student: Yeah, sorry,
the generator is not done yet.
>> Kyle Simpson: Which actually
brings up a really good point,
I'm glad you asked that.
Generators do not have to ever finish.
It's entirely okay for
you to only partially consume a generator.
And then when you have
no more reference to it,
it's just gonna get garbage
collected like any other value.
Okay, so it's entirely okay to do that.
As matter of fact, sometimes you're going
to design your generators to never finish.
You know how
bad it is usually looked at to put
a while true loop in your programming?
Because while true is like, unless you
have a return or a break in there,
a while true is gonna run forever, right?
Actually it turns out if you put
a while true inside of a generator and
you have a yield keyword in there,
that's an entirely valid design that
you actually do pretty commonly.
I like to say that generators are putting
the while true back into programming.
Right?
Cuz you might wanna generator that every
single time you call it,
maybe the while true loop,
it's going to generate
a new unique ID every time.
So every time I call next, I get a new
Unique ID and then it loops back and
it waits again till I ask for
another value and another value.
That's thinking of generators in the way
that, where their name comes from,
that they are generating or producing
values for us from the outside world.
So that's thinking about
a generator is a producer and
I'm going to consume it
by calling dot next.
From the asynchronous programming world,
I've asked you to flip your
brains back the other way.
So I've asked you to think more about
the inside of the generator, and
not worry about what's
happening on the outside.
But that's where
generators get their name,
is that they produce an iterator
that can be can be consumed.
>> Student 2: Quick question, why do you
put parentheses around the yield keyword?
Does that do anything?
>> Kyle Simpson: Grammatically
it's required.
>> Student 2: Okay.
>> Kyle Simpson: There are some weird
grammatic surrounds the yield keyword.
So without getting on too much of a rabbit
trail there, if you study the ES6 grammar,
the way yield is expressed,
in this particular case it's required.
So that's an unfortunate
nuance of grammar.
Yes.
>> Student 4: There's
a couple questions there,
saying what is line three waiting for?
He thought you mentioned that line
three is waiting for ten to finish.
>> Kyle Simpson: No, so
let me run through the arrows again and
see if that answers that question.
After line five,
none of the generator has started.
We have an iterator for it,
wrapped around the function we call run.
But it hasn't run yet.
Nothing has happened.
I could have called run.
I could have called it step,
if that helps you understand it better.
Cuz stepping is going to step
through it one at a time, okay?
So we call line seven.
We step into it, or
we start the running of it.
We run the first part of the generator and
that's gonna transfer control to line two.
Line two starts to execute,
runs across a yield keyword and
says, I need a value here,
I'm going to wait.
So I'm gonna return control and
pause myself while you get
ready to answer my question.
And I'll wait as long as it takes.
In this case we synchronously
have an answer.
We're going to send an answer
right back in with the value ten.
So the value ten is an actual JavaScript
number, there's no specialty to it,
it's just a number that we pass in.
Could've been a string, could have been
an object, could have been anything.
But it's a value that we pass in and
now it gets added to one and x equals 11.
Then we move on to line three.
Don't get confused by the arrows
we're still running the generator.
We're on the line three.
We start to run line three we
have var y equals one plus.
And oops, there's another yield.
So we need to pause again waiting for
control, so
we are going to return
control to line eight.
Which would mean that line eight
would get an object back with value
undefined under false.
At some later point,
like line ten, we're going to
answer the pending paused question.
The yield keyword from line three
is waiting for an answer, and
we're going to give it that answer
by passing in the value 30.
So the answer to the question is,
what is line three waiting on,
it's waiting on the value
30 from line ten.
Okay, that value comes in,
30 plus 1, we now have 31.
X is 11, y is 31.
We add those two together,
we get the value 42 on line four.
And then we yield out that value,
42, back to line ten.
It's a pause, resume, pause,
resume, pause, resume.
And every pause is asking a question and
every resume is answering the question.
Does that make sense?
Yes?
>> Student 3: So we
are paused on line four?
>> Kyle Simpson: We're
currently paused on line four.
Which is okay,
we can leave it in that state.
On line 12 you could call
run again if you want.
And you could even pass in a value and
it would go in, and
the way we've written our generator we
don't do anything with it, but you could.
And you can have a return key word on
line four and a half if you want and
that would return a value.
That's all totally valid,
but it's not required.
You can partially consume this
generator if you need to.
>> Student: So if you just put the y
through around then you could just
constantly log the meaning of life.
Next, next next, next, next, next.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yep, exactly.
>> Student 3: On line seven if
you passed in on the first one,
if you're passing an initial value,
would it not break on line two?
>> Kyle Simpson: No,
that's not what would happen.
This is one of the.
>> Kyle Simpson: Not so
wonderful parts of the design.
As a VS6, if you pass in a value
to the initial dot next call,
there is no yield keyword waiting for it.
So that value just goes.
Okay?
Which is weird from
the outside perspective.
It feels like there ought to be
some way to get a hold of it, and
there is no way to get a hold of it.
Many people including myself brought up
concerns about the inconsistency of that
design quirk,
thinking that that would confuse people.
There's a proposal ES7, of a way that you
would be able to get access to that value,
not through a yield keyword.
But at the moment as it stands,
don't send a value
to the first dot next call because
it's just going to go [NOISE].
That's an unfortunate,
weird quirk of the design.
>> Student 2: On line four,
if you just do a return of x plus y,
wouldn't that finish also?
>> Kyle Simpson: It would
still do the exact thing.
>> Student 2: Okay.
Then the-
>> Kyle Simpson: But the generator would
be fully complete.
>> Student 2: Would be complete.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yup.
>> Student 2: Okay.
>> Kyle Simpson: That's exactly right.
Okay, in the back.
>> Student 4: They're asking in the chat,
on line two.,
if that takes a long time before reaching
yield, but then you call run, but
a call to run happens before that
finishes, what does that look like?
>> Kyle Simpson: That's not possible with
JavaScript single threaded semantics.
It's not possible for
you to try to start the generator twice,
unless the generator from inside
of itself tried to call run.
And if you did that you're
gonna get an error.
But it's not possible for some other part
of your program to try to call run again.
Because at any given moment only one line
of JavaScript is executing this is all
still fundamentally single threaded.
>> Student 4: And then they're also
following up with, use of a generator,
can you us some real world examples?
>> Kyle Simpson: We're getting there
with the asynchronous pattern.
Okay, he real world example I'm going to
give you is how this is going to totally
magically transform all of
our asynchronous programming.
But there are other use cases
besides asynchronous programming,
the most common of which is to
produce values as I was talking about.
Flipping your mindset back to not
worrying about the inside and
worrying about the outside.
A generator is just a way
to produce an iterator.
And if I wanted to iterate
through a set of values,
I could have my generator sit there and
loop and yield those out to me.
A generator is a way to iterate
over an object, for example,
I could have an object
that's a data structure,
with a bunch of values in it, and I could
define a generator as my iterator, and
just yield out all my own
values in some special way.
So there's ways to use generators
as iterator producers.
I think that's the less
interesting usage of them.
I think the asynchronous pattern that
we're heading towards is the more
interesting usage.
>> Student: Can you make it immediately
invoking to do that first one for you?
>> Kyle Simpson: Can
a generator be an iffy?
Absolutely.
But you're not gonna wanna make
a generator an iffy unless you store that
iterator because you're going
to need that iterator for later.
So yes.
>> Student 4: So
just kind of clarifying then,
they're saying, so
the run is blocked until yield?
>> Kyle Simpson: That is correct.
Just that standard old,
outside of the generato,r everything's
the same as it always was in JavaScript.
Single threaded.
When a call's running,
nothing else can run.
>> Kyle Simpson: The only thing that
changes is what happens on the inside,
the ability for it to pause.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay.
So let's try to drive more, keep your
mind set up based on the inside, and
don't worry so much about the stuff
on line seven through 11.
Cuz that stuff is gonna end up being
plumbing that's hidden away in a library.
The stuff we're gonna care about
is the stuff that's inside of
the generator, okay?